README.md, before:

# Prototyping Custom Hero Image Element
A custom element for use with a site's hero image which allows user interaction to display more information.  Concept allows for working with a custom element where the styling and control is given to the website owner.  This prototyping process helps to discover element attributes that empower the owner to control the custom element AND allows the developer to work within the custom element to discover the proper attributes necessary to function effectively.

## Event API
Listen for custom events as users interact with the Custom Hero Element
* toggle-ribbon-display
* 
## Custom Element Attributes
```
	string: product-id="prod123"	( technically a string starts with chars https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/id )
	string: fullscreen-position="fixed" 	(expects css value)
	string: fullscreen-zindex="20012"	(expects css value)
	string: can-expand-height="true"		(used as boolean)
	string: can-expand-width="true"		(used as boolean)
	url:	ec-json="https://myurl.wherever"
	string: hero-reference-selector="#element-selector" (expects a javascript query selector)
```

## What It Does
*  Allows an icon to be positioned over a hero image that can be interacted with to display a ribbon with more options
*  Ribbon display slides out to present more interactable items
*  Interactable Items are clickable and present more information or more details over the hero image
*  More details can be clicked to go fullscreen and take over the entire window view
*  Original style values are preserved and restored after fullscreen view is returned to normal viewing mode

## Implementation
As a website administrator you have the control over when to display this element and where to display it.  With a few configurations and a little coordination with your development team, you can implement this customization

### Implementation Option - Independent Overlay - Avoid Elements with Transitions and Overflow Hidden
Use this method when your site and hero elements hide overflow content ( css overflow: hidden )
* Place the custom element tag in the body of site page
* Set the hero-reference-selector to be the element to have the overlay content
* Set the ec-json="https://myurl.wherever" to retreive the overlay content

### Implementation Option - Child Element - Nested Within Hero Elements
Use this method when your site and hero elements do not hide overflow content content ( css overflow: auto | scroll )
* Place the custom element tag within the hero element that will display the overlay content
* Set the ec-json="https://myurl.wherever" to retreive the overlay content

### Implementation Option - Parent Element - Hero Elements Nested Within Overlay Element
- Currently investigating this method using slots - https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/web-components/shadowdom#slots

### Implementation Option - Mobile / Responsive
If you are using the same page for mobile presentation and you hide, remove or utilize another element for the hero display
* Use a custom element for each display
* Be sure to remove and hide each experience 
* Be sure to use a custom element for each experience
* Be sure each element is configured according to the desired approach
* Set the ec-json="https://myurl.wherever" to retreive the overlay content



## Manual Site Testing ( on an existing site already hosted )
It's a way to see what the custom element would look like on someone's existing site
Use the script and text below to create the html entities necessary for the component to display

### When you are able to supply a target element selector
*  copy the function and paste it into the console
*  update the parameters to target an existing element on the page
*  script src points to the hero-element.js file
*  (local developemnt point it to your local host)


```

function createMyHero (selector, position) {
	const hed = document.querySelector('head');
	const s = document.createElement('script');
	s.id="my-hero-element-script";
	s.type="module";
	//s.src = "https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/appCurious/hero-experience/hero-element.js";
	s.src = "https://localhost:50021/my-hero";
	hed.append(s);
	
	if (selector && position) {
		const target = document.querySelector(selector);
		const customElementHtml = `<style>
			.my-hero-parent {
				position: relative;
				position: fixed;
				position: absolute;
				
				
				height: 100%;
				width: 100%;
				/*height: inherit;*/
				/*width: inherit;*/
				
				z-index: 20012;
			}
		</style>
		<my-hero-experience 
			class="my-hero-parent" 
			product-id="123"
			fullscreen-position="fixed"
			fullscreen-zindex="20012"
			can-expand-height="true"
			can-expand-width="true"
			hero-reference-selector="">
		</my-hero-experience>`
		
		if (target) {
			target.insertAdjacentHTML(position, customElementHtml);    
		}
	}
}

createMyHero('#realHeroContainer','afterbegin');

```

### Alternate Manual Creation
* copy the custom element style and element text from the function
* edit an existing element as html and paste where the custom element is to display
* copy the function and paste it to the console
* run the script with no parameters

```
createMyHero();
```

### Serve From Localhost
* create certs ( on windows use wls or git bash )
* remember to open the browser and request https://localhost:50021/my-hero in order to allow the self-signed cert

```
openssl genrsa -out server.key
openssl req -new -key server.key -out server.cert
openssl x509 -req -days 9999 -in server.cert -signkey server.key -out server.cert.pem
rm server.cert
```
```
node server
```

Commit message:

selectors are working.  reinforced the need for a reset function as sites remove elements and recreate them

README.md, after:

# Prototyping Custom Hero Image Element
A custom element for use with a site's hero image which allows user interaction to display more information.  Concept allows for working with a custom element where the styling and control is given to the website owner.  This prototyping process helps to discover element attributes that empower the owner to control the custom element AND allows the developer to work within the custom element to discover the proper attributes necessary to function effectively.

## Event API
Listen for custom events as users interact with the Custom Hero Element
### toggle-ribbon-display
event with details indicating if the ribbon items are present or hidden 

## API
### dynamicallyChangeSelectors() 
creates a MutationObserver that observers document.body which will compare the hero-reference-selectors and switch to the active hero element
### resetExperience() 
each time it is called it will compare the hero-reference-selectors and switch to the active hero element

## Custom Element Attributes
```
	string: product-id="prod123"	( technically a string starts with chars https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/id )
	string: fullscreen-position="fixed" 	(expects css value)
	string: fullscreen-zindex="20012"	(expects css value)
	string: can-expand-height="true"		(used as boolean)
	string: can-expand-width="true"		(used as boolean)
	url:	ec-json="https://myurl.wherever"
	string: hero-reference-selectors="#element-selector" ( expects javascript query selectors separated by semicolon ; )
	string: dynamically-change-selectors="true" (used as truthy comparison)
```
### product-id
the sku or unique identifier for this product or page as indexed in our system.  this id is used for reporting and data retrieval
### ec-json
the url called to retrieve data as it is defined in our system according to your configurations
### hero-reference-selectors
the javascript query selector strings that will be used to find and reshape the hero element.  this is a string delimited by a semicolon. We support multiple selectors to provide maximum flexibility for your site to allow the removal, the hidding and the addition of hero elements.  Usual use case is having 1 hero element for mobile display and another for desktop.  The element is in use when it is in the DOM and has a clientRect returned by getClientRects().  elements and elements with parents that are set to display none or hidden do not have a clientRect.  The last element to meet the criteria will be considered to be active.

For resizing and repositioning We observe the element found AND we observe the element parent.  if your needs are different, call resetExperience() or set the dynamically-change-selectors to change selectors as needed. 
###  dynamically-change-selectors
a flag that will call dynamicallyChangeSelectors() to setup a MutationObserver to compare hero selectors and change to the hero element that is active.  


## What It Does
*  Allows an icon to be positioned over a hero image that can be interacted with to display a ribbon with more options
*  Ribbon display slides out to present more interactable items
*  Interactable Items are clickable and present more information or more details over the hero image
*  More details can be clicked to go fullscreen and take over the entire window view
*  Original style values are preserved and restored after fullscreen view is returned to normal viewing mode

## Implementation
As a website administrator you have the control over when to display this element and where to display it.  With a few configurations and a little coordination with your development team, you can implement this customization

### Implementation Option - Independent Overlay - Avoid Elements with Transitions and Overflow Hidden
Use this method when your site and hero elements hide overflow content ( css overflow: hidden )
* Place the custom element tag in the body of site page
* Set the hero-reference-selector to be the element to have the overlay content
* Set the ec-json="https://myurl.wherever" to retreive the overlay content

### Implementation Option - Child Element - Nested Within Hero Elements
Use this method when your site and hero elements do not hide overflow content content ( css overflow: auto | scroll )
* Place the custom element tag within the hero element that will display the overlay content
* Set the ec-json="https://myurl.wherever" to retreive the overlay content

### Implementation Option - Parent Element - Hero Elements Nested Within Overlay Element
- Currently investigating this method using slots - https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/web-components/shadowdom#slots

### Implementation Option - Mobile / Responsive
If you are using the same page for mobile presentation and you hide, remove or utilize another element for the hero display
* Use a custom element for each display
* Be sure to remove and hide each experience 
* Be sure to use a custom element for each experience
* Be sure each element is configured according to the desired approach
* Set the ec-json="https://myurl.wherever" to retreive the overlay content



## Manual Site Testing ( on an existing site already hosted )
It's a way to see what the custom element would look like on someone's existing site
Use the script and text below to create the html entities necessary for the component to display

### When you are able to supply a target element selector
*  copy the function and paste it into the console
*  update the parameters to target an existing element on the page
*  script src points to the hero-element.js file
*  (local developemnt point it to your local host)


```

function createMyHero (selector, position) {
	const hed = document.querySelector('head');
	const s = document.createElement('script');
	s.id="my-hero-element-script";
	s.type="module";
	//s.src = "https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/appCurious/hero-experience/hero-element.js";
	s.src = "https://localhost:50021/my-hero";
	hed.append(s);
	
	if (selector && position) {
		const target = document.querySelector(selector);
		const customElementHtml = `<style>
			.my-hero-parent {
				position: relative;
				position: fixed;
				position: absolute;
				
				
				height: 100%;
				width: 100%;
				/*height: inherit;*/
				/*width: inherit;*/
				
				z-index: 20012;
			}
		</style>
		<my-hero-experience 
			class="my-hero-parent" 
			product-id="123"
			fullscreen-position="fixed"
			fullscreen-zindex="20012"
			can-expand-height="true"
			can-expand-width="true"
			hero-reference-selector="">
		</my-hero-experience>`
		
		if (target) {
			target.insertAdjacentHTML(position, customElementHtml);    
		}
	}
}

createMyHero('#realHeroContainer','afterbegin');

```

### Alternate Manual Creation
* copy the custom element style and element text from the function
* edit an existing element as html and paste where the custom element is to display
* copy the function and paste it to the console
* run the script with no parameters

```
createMyHero();
```

### Serve From Localhost
* create certs ( on windows use wls or git bash )
* remember to open the browser and request https://localhost:50021/my-hero in order to allow the self-signed cert

```
openssl genrsa -out server.key
openssl req -new -key server.key -out server.cert
openssl x509 -req -days 9999 -in server.cert -signkey server.key -out server.cert.pem
rm server.cert
```
```
node server
```
